yeah okay can you explain how people
came up with meditation techniques they
seem to be very specific and come from
certain people but how did those people
figure it out amazing question okay so
how did people discover meditation so no
man okay
so supposedly meditation techniques were
revealed knowledge so like someone was
doing something and they sort of claim
that they were shown or that this
knowledge is revealed to them and I
think what's happened since then is that
like once you understand meditation it's
kind of like like once you understand
the principles of the body the mind the
soul whatever whether you believe in it
or not whatever you know you start to
understand like how things work and then
use the people started to realize like
okay there's a certain practice for a
certain kind of mind so there are some
principles about the mind for example
you know the way to calm a mind is not
by like holding it in place oddly enough
but is to let it run out of energy so if
you have like an ADHD mind
you can do a particular kind of
technique that sort of slows it down so
like once you understand the principles
of the mind like you understand how the
mind works then you can come up with a
meditation technique to guide whatever
you want so I think about it this way
like if you guys play dota or Starcraft
or whatever like they're they're builds
right like you have video games where
someone has a build order or like you
have a certain like set of like talents
or itembuild or whatever you're like an
item progression and so how did someone
come up with like a build order in
Starcraft 2 like they understood the
fundamental like components of the game
that's being played and then they sort
of figured out okay if I want to get
from A to Z like and this is this is
what I can work with how can I get to Z
how can I get to D how can I get to G
how can I get to H so it's kind of that
way they started by first like
understanding that like the core of of
like how human beings work and they
developed techniques to sort of function
on these different levels so I'll give
you guys kind of a couple of other sort
of weird esoteric
answers to that so that people say that
Shiva so Shiva is one of the three Hindu
Trinity so Hinduism has a bunch of gods
but one of the three main gods is this
guy named Shiva and Shiva people say
that Shiva's basically the first yogi so
Shiva is the the is the person or God
who gave human beings meditation in the
science of yoga so if you look at Shiva
like he's like he's not you look at like
pictures of Hindu gods like they're
gonna be doing all kinds of stuff like
laying down and like random stuff she
was like usually meditating that's what
he's doing
and so who Shiva was I'm not sure I mean
my sense is that historically there was
probably like one teacher or maybe like
the concept of one teacher got kind of
like mo memorialized or
anthropomorphised
is like Shiva and he's like the original
yogi some people claim to have been like
taught Shi by Shiva directly like
they're wandering in the Himalayas and
they're like going to a cave and there's
a guy there who's just like sitting
there and that that person will teach
them meditation and they think that
that's Shiva there is like there's
stories about that I mean I don't know
what to believe there but so Shiva
apparently is the first teacher of
meditation in a more let me just think
for a second if there are other ways to
answer that question yeah I guess that's
a good answer so that's sort of like
what what the meditative traditions say
oh so I guess this is another chance to
talk about something so like for example
one way that like mantras are developed
is there's this idea that when people
meditate they sort of heard this basic
universal hum which is ohm so like oh my
sort of the primordial oscillation of
the universe and then if they looked at
different sort of versions of ohm and
they came up with these twelve things
called bija mantras which are like seeds
and then if you combine each of those
beach mantras has a particular kind of
energy and when you combine those
energies and different combinations you
sort of get like a dish right so it's
sort of like if I combine different
ingredients like I get a
and so those are mantras so when people
like chant like mantras is a form of
meditation
those are combinations of these
different ingredients but at the end of
the day someone understood the
ingredients I don't know who that is or
how they discovered it or what but when
you do meditation you'll you'll see what
I'm talking about because when you
meditate for example oh actually the
weekend yes I'm just relating like this
is like the theory from the tradition
that I learned I'm not saying it's true
or not true but yeah we're gonna do
meditation questions today we're gonna
do all meditation so I'll give you guys
just one example of how someone
discovered two of the beach mantras so I
want you guys to close your eyes and
listen to the sound of your breath so if
you listen to the sound of the breath
and you like what are you so like the
first thing is that there are two
different sounds right that the sound of
inhalation is different from the sound
of exhalation and then if you're
brushing your teeth listen to the sound
of brushing your teeth and see if there
are two sounds there as well and then as
someone in chat points out it literally
the sound of the breath is the same as
the sound of the ocean so now go and
listen to the sound of the ocean and let
go listen and see if that's the same
sound okay next time you're at the ocean
listen close your eyes listen to your
breath and listen to the sound of the
ocean and so then just like pretend your
primitive human right and then you're
like well that's kind of weird like
pretend you're like a live five thousand
years ago and you're like
it sounds the same does that mean that
there's some kind of connection between
my breath and the ocean and so what the
way that they discovered the beach
mantras is they listen to all of the
sounds this is my theory they listen to
all of the sounds and they sort of
figured out that they're like twelve of
them that represent all of the
phenomenon and so those are the beach
mantras and then they listen to those
twelve sounds and they found one sound
that's sort of like underneath all of
them and that's oh now I don't know what
to make it out like I don't think like
as a scientist I don't know I mean these
are just these are the the teachings of
the traditions that I study I think at
the end of the day I tend to gravitate
towards like science and like the first
half of the stream was like lecture
right so that's what I believe in I
believe in like studying the quality of
mind seeing the way the mind works
looking at it for yourself and trying to
understand it like analyzing the nature
of mine all of this other stuff like I
can give you guys answers although it's
like it's a different kind of tradition
right because this is all like do you
have faith in it or not which is not
what I'm about but what I try to do is
like explore this stuff for myself and
see what I can figure out so I do think
it's kind of cool for example that the
sound of the breath if you listen in the
world you'll hear it in a lot of
different places I don't know what like
I don't know what to make of that like I
don't know if it's just you know the
nature of our ears are like restricted
with the wavelengths that they can hear
and so we're gonna hear a common sounds
like in the same way that our eyes like
it's kind of like saying like oh if I go
out into the world I can like see the
same colors everywhere I go like there's
seven colors that I see it's all like
seven colors man like it's like
everything is connected man seven colors
and it's like yeah duh it's just because
our eyes have a limited visual spectrum
and we can't see infrared and so that's
just how our eyes perceive color so like
maybe the same is true of sound right
like let's be scientific about it so
like this stuff is like the spiritual
stuff I think is like cool and
interesting cuz I like fantasy games it
sort of like fantasy game
like it's like ffs like Naruto and
chakras and and all that kind of stuff
like I think that stuff is cool but
let's be scientific about it right so
I'm just gonna answer questions cuz
that's what we're doing today that's
question number one so it took me like
12 minutes to answer one question we've
got 60 so okay so dr. kay mentioned a
form of meditation called yoga in the
mid row to which he adds a positive
reinforcement at the end I was wondering
how to do that also is there another
meditation for losing ego other than the
laser beam one it doesn't give me any
sensations anymore okay good excellent
okay so the first question is if you're
chasing meditate if you're chasing
experiences so on stream we did this
meditation called charging the laser
beam in charging the laser beam like
everyone loved because they did it and
they're like woah it's like I have a
laser beam that's like charging up in my
forehead right and then what happens is
you run into the first problem of
meditation which is that you create an
expectation so as you look for the laser
beam your mind is no longer focused on
your forehead your mind is focused on
looking for the laser beam and so like
then you don't find the laser beam
because in order to find the laser beam
you have to be focusing fully on the
forehead so it's like the most common
problem in meditation is that if you
chase an experience in meditation you
won't be able to find that experience
again most common problem so people will
meditate and before they understand what
the f they're doing they have some kind
of really cool experience and the next
time they meditate they want that again
they're like okay like we're gonna do
this this time but expectation just
ruins it expectation makes it difficult
for you to focus the mind because your
mind is hanging on to that expectation
so you can't focus on the practice your
mind becomes weak it becomes dissipated
you're no longer concentrated therefore
no more experience so let go of the
expectation focus on the forehead just
focus on the forehead focus on the
forehead the more you focus on the
forehead the better your meditation will
be
and newsflash folks charging the laser
beam is just the first sensation in that
practice you do that practice for 15
years all kinds of cool stuff is gonna
happen stuff that I can't even describe
because no one is gonna understand what
the f I'm saying like if I told you guys
on stream for those of you guys have
charged the laser beam you know what I'm
talking about but if for those of you
guys who are relatively new and you're
like what on earth does it mean to
charge the laser beam in your forehead
like just think about that for a second
like no one is gonna understand what
that means so I can't even tell you what
happens because it's like literally not
gonna make any sense
so just charge the laser beam just focus
on the practice and stuff will happen
don't try to chase the sensation of the
laser beam okay all right so we can also
do yoga nidra at the end hey can you
give me any advice how can I find my
mantra to do month or meditation month
or is need to be given by like someone
who has a certain amount of spiritual
experience like you just don't find your
oh I mean I guess you can't find your
mantra but I was given my mantra by a
teacher and I've been doing that month
or for 16 years and it has helped me
focus a lot it's a very good one and
then like I've sometimes given month
rows to people which is not something
that like I can do on a regular basis
because it all depends on the state of
my mind so I like there's one person for
example I tried to like find a month or
for them for like one year and I just
couldn't because my mind was just not
cooperating other people I feel like I
figure it out so month rows are
generally like given by a teacher so you
don't find it so sorry you don't just
find it so you have to find a teacher so
what would you recommend for breathing
techniques for someone that has a
deviated system septum
really interested in what you were
discussing with raffle today regarding
the notice on change in nostril openings
so if you have a deviated septum you
shouldn't do anything that requires you
to breathe out of one nostril but there
are a lot of meditation techniques that
have nothing to do with your nose or
breathing so Caius theorem is a great
example like so you can do any
meditation technique that doesn't have
to do with breathing you can also do
meditation techniques that have to do
with breathing just not a nostril
preferential technique so one technique
that I teach for example is like
kapalabhati which is forceful exhalation
so it's kind of going like this like
that so you can do forceful exhalations
like that doesn't deviated septums don't
matter so let's do kapalabhati together
set up straight okay
okay okay back straight voice wait do
you have you ever I taught you guys how
to sit up straight and we talked about
this okay I'm gonna teach you guys how
to sit up straight it's easy easy peasy
lemon squeezy I promise you easy one of
the most broken things so that I ever
learned or discovered I don't know if
any when I've taught me this or I mean I
just sort of figured it out but easy
trick to sitting up straight okay let's
just do it now yeah absolutely there's a
proper way I'm gonna show you guys okay
I'm gonna have to do this I need to know
whether y'all can hear me okay
[Music]
okay you guys can see me right so I'm
going to teach you guys a trick
how's it up straight okay so if you guys
can't grab a pillow grab a pillow so if
you can sit cross-legged I want you to
sit cross-legged and then notice what
happens like what does your body feel
like doing you guys sit like this I
can't read twitch chat so okay I'm gonna
have to just like talk to Andrew so like
if you guys see like when I sit
cross-legged like what do I feel like
doing slouching right and so it's gonna
be hard to see but try this again this
chair like what I feel like doing it
right just left that's normally how we
sit okay now how can I teaches so what I
want you guys to do is feel so feel the
slouch and then I want you to stand up
and notice what happens to your back
when you stand
right so you straighten up so now what I
want you guys to do is sit like this
actually so if you have a chair I want
you to move to the edge of the chair and
then cross your legs in front how can I
do this okay so I want you to sit at the
edge so like if you sit back you're
gonna slouch okay nipple spotted okay
so if you sit like you're gonna slap
right so I want you to sit at the edge
and then put your feet out in front of
you and then what happens to your what
happens to your back is if you sit
forward with your feet straight in front
of you and then move back and slouch and
sit forward then what happens your back
straightens right so now what we're
gonna do I'm gonna show you guys this
business okay cross leg and then we go
into half Lotus what do you guys notice
about my back so here's cross leg
okay here's half of us what happens to
my back you don't have to do half Lotus
just watch me okay and then full Lotus
what happens right so you guys see this
so this is full Lotus you don't have to
do full Lotus I'll teach you guys how to
do this without full Lotus okay
so what's happened so if you want to sit
cross-legged and then sit on a pillow
and then notice what happens to your
back if you sit on a pillow and then do
half Lotus that works great
easy now I'm gonna show you guys okay so
[Music]
slouched right take the pillow
okay sit on the pillow what happens to
my back half Lotus easy so this is very
important to understand anytime so if we
look at the progression of no Lotus so
look at my knees my knees are up here my
hips are down here right so left hand is
above my right hand higher lower as I go
into half Lotus what happens they're
about the same and as I go into full
Lotus this is lower than this hand so
all you need to do to sit up straight is
to have your knees
so here's him here's new budget awesome
Thunderbolt pose right so when our knees
are lower than our hips our back will be
straight so let me show you guys the
last one so when I'm sitting in a chair
hips are back here knee is up here as I
sit forward knees go down hips stay here
that's simple when I stand knees are
down here hipster up here it's easy to
sit up stand up straight right so if you
want your back to be straight all you
need to do is have your knees lower than
your hips that's it
so if you're sitting I know and so this
is important right it's physics it's not
math it's physics so like if you guys
see like like if you sit on a court with
us so if you're in a chair like sit on a
cushion and elevate your butt and then
it's like easy sitting up straight is
not about posture it's about physics and
if the weight of your body is
distributed through your spine and into
the ground it'll be easy you won't use
any muscles if your center of gravity is
not along your spine then you'll use
muscles to prop yourself up and keep
yourself from falling over and then
you'll get tightness over here your
postures all messed up that's it
easy-peasy okay all right well this is
great I don't have to wear headphones
because I'm not talking to anyone okay I
can't tell if the person who's asking me
to demonstrate again is trolling me
because that's annoying
okay so okay you guys got that so just
keep your knees below your hips and like
just just try it okay just try it at
home so if you're in a chair like put
two pillows or three pillows under your
butt but not under your legs and see
what happens to your back when you put
three when you sit on three pillows take
like two pillows and stick them on a
chair and then sit in the chair and
watch what happens to your back okay all
right armatures yeah armchairs are
comfortable to sit in but terrible for
posture sitting on a stool is good
depends are your hips gonna be lower
than your knees when you sit on the
stool okay all right so I'm getting a
thousand questions but we've done like
three out of sixty so we're gonna go
back ok-ran so like one or two more okay
okay so actually this is another
meditation technique just sit in
different like degrees of ratios of hips
to knees and pay attention to yourself
and just see what your body feels like
like that is actually amazing meditation
let's just sit and feel so use one
pillow use two pillows use three pillows
and just feel your body stand up sit on
the edge of stairs so like if you take a
staircase the second step from the
bottom or the third step from the bottom
sit there and let your feet be down the
stairs and see how your body feels got
it so she so go ahead and just do that
like do that on your own time easy peasy
okay can you just clip your meditation
portions of videos and make a youtube
playlist of them I shall ask my mods to
do that regarding meditation with
meditation I can focus my mind and stop
it from wandering what if I enjoy
wandering in the dream world I think
that's why I'm not motivated in doing
meditation yeah of course you must enjoy
motivation in the dream world let me
explain something to you guys so we're
gonna we're gonna this is the last
question we're gonna do okay this person
says I enjoy like letting my mind wander
in the dream world like should I stop
like meditation doesn't let me do that
so first of all you can enjoy the dream
world the rest of the time when you're
not meditating but I want to talk for a
second about fantasy so when you guys
feel bad and you start to fantasize
about something like let's say that I
failed a test and unlike my mind wanders
and I feel bad right and then my mind
wanders to like the day that I'm gonna
be valedictorian and then everyone's
gonna see then and then what is that
what does that do to my emotions so when
I fantasize like and I'm feeling bad I'm
so confused okay
talking about fantasy right okay so this
I'm gonna say okay so what you need to
understand is I know she's just gonna
control you [ __ ] oh one day one day
I'm gonna destroy I'm gonna just end
stream okay so oh man I'm gonna troll
y'all so hard
one day the boomer comments won't get to
be too much and my hatred from you and
I'll fantasize about one day I'm gonna
troll them I'm gonna teach twit to a
chat who's a Boomer now who is the
Boomer now fantasy about revenge
absolutely so let's talk about fantasy
okay what you need to understand is that
the motivation to change and the energy
to create fantasies in your mind comes
from one bucket so when I like get
humiliated at school I feel a lot of
negative emotion and if I channel that
emotion in the right way I'm gonna
actually change my life like I'll be
like oh man like I'm just like out of
shape and those guys like run me down
everyday so I got to work out and like
get better and get healthy but if I
fantasize it decompresses all of that
negative emotion the negative emotion
goes away like cuz you fantasize right
then you feel good at the end of the
fantasy that's what the fantasies that's
why it's so addicting so the energy to
make a change in your life in the energy
to fantasize comes from one bucket so
you have to decide where you which which
way you want to use that energy do you
want to use it to fantasize about your
future or do you want to use it to make
a change and just notice this notice the
things in your life that you fantasize
about are those the things that you get
stuck on or those the things that you
move forward on the more you fantasize
the more it saps away your energy to
actually make a change
yeah of course they feel really good
they make you feel really good and
there's actually some neuro scientific
evidence to support this theory this has
been sort of my understanding based on
my own like looking at my mind and yoga
and meditation but if we look at the
learning circuitry of the brain if we
look at the behavioral change circuitry
of the bank brain learning circuitry is
very closely tied to your amygdala and
limbic system so our brain is wired to
learn lessons from pain so like if you
you know we're walking down the street
and then like you slip on the ice and it
hurts a lot you are going to learn very
quickly to pay attention to like ice on
the street right like pain is like the
the greatest teacher so if you like
let's say so I mean this happens
sometimes where I'll work with someone
who's has to do with like deal with
infidelity in their marriage and if
someone has to deal with infidelity in
their marriage if someone's like partner
is unfaithful there they learn to like
never trust anyone again it's very hard
for them to trust people in the future
and so like pain like teaches us and
changes our behavior they're like [ __ ]
this I'm never gonna date anyone again
like I'm never gonna fall in love never
it changes that person it changes their
behavior and it all comes from pain and
when you have that pain from a negative
experience when you have shame and stuff
like that and then you fantasize it
shuts that part of your brain off which
is the same thing the same thing that
video games do when you experience
negative emotion and you play a video
game it shuts off that negative
emotional part of your brain which
changes your motivational Drive and and
changes like deactivates the part of
your brain that causes you to learn from
your mistakes just think about that for
a second
that our brain is wired to teach us how
to learn from our mistakes and that
generally speaking the way that we
perceive mistakes is through pain right
like when you do something dumb or
stupid or you hurt yourself or you hurt
someone else you feel bad and then you
learn a lesson from it like think about
the lessons that you learned and think
about whether pain were involved and
then understand that like if you turn
off the circuitry that has you
experience pain like how are you gonna
learn and so now we understand really
importantly like why people who play
video games make the same mistakes like
over and over and over again like you
know you should go to class you know you
should study harder you know you should
go to the gym but you don't have any
reinforcement from it because those
negative emotions are being turned off
it's not your fault you're not dumb it's
just you're shutting off one of the
biggest parts of your brain that teaches
you to change and fantasy does the same
thing that fantasy like calms the those
negative parts down it sort of soothes
you makes you feel better and then
you're stuck
so do your best not to fantasize or be
careful with what you fantasize my life
got a whole lot better when I stopped
fantasizing about when I started
focusing on doing things instead of like
hoping and like wishing like oh like one
day I'm gonna do this or one day I'm
gonna do this I just stopped I mean I
didn't just stop I would continue to do
but I started changing the focus of my
mind I used thought or not to change the
attention and to focus the concentration
and to concentrate on one thing and then
as I focused and concentrated on one
thing I batted fantasies aside when
fantasies would arise you just nope I
just focus on the thing that you're
doing your life will change
your life will change just in your mind
you've got a certain number of stat
points right
like actually not stat points let's call
it like minerals or vespene gas like you
have a certain number of minerals and
you can spend those minerals on creating
change or you can spend those minerals
on fantasizing
same pool of energy same pool
I still play dota whenever I can okay
okay last question
okay so I built up a routine of daily
meditation it's been good however I feel
it's a bit simplistic and hasn't changed
in over three years currently I'm most
mostly just doing a type of mindfulness
meditation where I just breathe and try
to notice my thoughts and bring my
attention to my breath what resources
different techniques can I investigate
to expand where I am watch our steam
stream I was gonna say bro or a woman or
a person just watch the stream we're
gonna go through a lot of different
meditation techniques okay so let's do
one last meditation technique so I think
you guys have like we're gonna do Sean
Mookie mudra and bro Marie Brown I am
which I know some of you guys liked and
somebody all didn't but this is gonna be
like a very intensive meditation so
we're gonna try it's gonna look [ __ ]
weird and you're gonna feel [ __ ] we
were doing it until you actually do it
so this is a meditation called bhramari
mudra and Sean Mookie I mean sorry Sean
Mookie mudra and bhramari pranayama so
Sean Mookie mudra is like this I type it
stop typing chat I'm gonna type
something if you guys if you guys type
you're gonna lose it no no it's going no
no ok so Sean Mookie mudra is Sanskrit
for closing of the nine gates okay so
this is Sean beaucoup mudra so we have
this thing called the pinna of our ear
so push the pinna up and then thumb
inside the ear canal
okay so thumb inside the ear canal
so this is what's on will ki-moon deter
it looks like so corners of the mouth
right outside the nostrils inside of the
the eyes outside of the eyes okay and
then bra Marie Brown I am is where I'll
tell you guys how to do it so Brahma
deeper that's just the first phase
that's a mudra that's a hand sign that's
like going like this like you guys know
like these kinds of hand signs that
people do when they meditate that's a
mudra it's not the actual meditation but
I'm buddy piranha I am is Bea's breath
so you're gonna buzz like a bee or hum
[Music]
okay we're gonna put them together
got it so I'm gonna walk you guys
through it we're gonna do five breaths
okay and it's gonna be hard to tell what
I'm doing because you're not gonna be
able to see me or hear me so I'm gonna
just do it you guys do it okay okay
[Music]
you
okay
the finger part I probably should have
done slower okay so we're gonna do I'm
gonna try to teach you guys again
got it so we'll do again corners outside
inside side
and the thumbs pin pin of the ear in the
end-of-the-year canal plug it up okay
you
[Music]
okay
you
all right
okay if you guys want an easier version
we'll do this
you could do above the eyebrows and been
built below the eyes
[Music]
you
one more
[Music]
okay so this is important
focuses the mind remember all these are
taught on us to focus the attention of
your mind on one point that's the
purpose of all of these they all have
other reasons too but so some of you
guys did this some of you all did it and
like that's important to recognize
because for those of you who didn't do
it think a little bit about why you
didn't do it
and think a little bit about did you
think that this was silly did you think
this is stupid did you think you didn't
know how to do it did you think that
like you maybe doing it wrong like did
you even try
you can really look at yourself
right embarrassment good lease notice
I mean I offered this one because some
people this is a more engrossing or
powerful meditation but it's hard to do
okay
all right so I think that's gonna be it
guys I'm gonna be out for the holidays
for one week I think so I think I'll be
streaming actually maybe for two weeks
so I'll be streaming Sunday January 5th
so I think I will catch you guys in 2020
um
not the earlobe earlobe is this push the
pin out and go inside okay the reason
that I try to type in twitch chat is so
that the people who have questions can
use this thing called Google and get
instructions from things called YouTube
because sometimes I'm a shitty teacher
but since you guys are trolling me and
don't want me to type and twitch at and
contribute I guess those people are Sol
I wish all of you guys happy happy
holidays and let me just figure out
[Music]
let's write someone
reckful